# Summarization-of-Biomedical-evidence

In the recent years, immense growth of information in various formats like text, images, sources on web etc. can be observed evidently. To handle the enormous growth of information, the field of Human Language Technologies (HLT) aims at developing machines that can understand and interpret natural languages. Text Summarization (TS) is a task which is focused on extracting the important and relevant information from a given set of documents in order to reduce the tedious task of reading the whole documents. These summaries act as a surrogate for whole documents, thus enabling the complex intelligent systems to reduce the processing time, while handling the vast information efficiently. The approaches of summarizing documents varies based on specific tasks and needs in different domains. Lately, the research in summarizing the Biomedical documents has geared up to enhance the healthcare system. BioASQ organization hosts challenges related to the Semantic Indexing and Question Answering tasks to develop solutions that can improve the access of information to the experts in the biomedical domain. 

In this thesis, the Query based Extractive Summarization techniques are discussed with a focus on the state-of-the-art BERT architecture. Pre-trained models are utilized to analyze if use of BERT based models alone, to reduce the complexity of the model produce better performing summaries. The systems built based on this research idea are discussed in this thesis, along with showcasing some of the best ROUGE scores obtained in BioASQ submissions.

The thesis report and the realted code of thesis experiments can be referred to in this repository.
